Growing up in a small town on the border of Massachusetts and New Hampshire, I’ve always had a passion for the outdoors. While I may have been somewhat secluded in my home in Pepperell, Massachusetts, from an early age, I joined the Boy Scouts of America in my hometown to stay connected with society through leadership, service, and outdoor experience. Emphasized by how our parents let my brother and I choose what we wanted to do as time progressed, scouting had became a major component in my life, eventually outshining its value to me on comparison to other sports and activities. That said, we tried soccer, martial arts, piano, and more, but scouting pushed us to where we are today. I’d occasionally see a couple friends come and go through moves as we stayed put in our town, but through the programs I committed to the most, I made true friends that I keep to this day.
Scouting has been and will always be a part of life. From the early days of my childhood, my parents put me into the scouting program to learn more about the outdoors, the community, and to explore the possibilities that my father had when he was in the scouting program. One of the key factors that made my brother and I get into the program was when he told us about his experience with earning the rank of Eagle Scout. Ever since then, we both earned our Eagle Scout, improving our leadership and outdoor ability while serving our community. Even with our Eagles being earned, I still spent time in the program to ensure the other scouts would be ready to lead when the scouts my age left the program. This included getting the great opportunity to take part in various High Adventure Trips with members of my troop. These included whitewater canoeing in Maine for nine days, and backpacking in New Mexico at the Philmont Scout Ranch for two weeks.
While scouting was a major part of life, the looming presence of social media found its way into our home like every other. I eventually was able to get my first major game in the 7th grade, Minecraft, a single player or multiplayer sandbox survival game, through finding the educational aspects of what it had to offer. This ranged from creativity to, in my later years, programming. Besides the aspect of getting online with friends to play games, social media never extended out much further, besides of using a couple platforms to talk to each other as we played. At least till Covid-19 started spreading around the country.
During the start of Covid-19, once we all figured out it would last much longer than anticipated, I started looking for a new hobby to pass the time, rather than just playing the same game for hours on end. However, with college applications on the horizon in the following school year, I wanted it to be beneficial to my future endeavors. I decided to attempt to do some programming, working to the end of making a mod for the game that I played most. A mod is a change in the way a game works to allow it to behave differently according to the programmer’s ideas. In this case, the mod for the game Minecraft already had public framework that could be customized to add blocks, items, and game mechanics. This newfound passion to attempt to make the computer do something on the screen, even if it was a bit away game modification, along with some electronics practice that I got from class, allowed me to be confident with pursuing a major in Software Engineering.
Perspectives change continuously with time, with one such for myself relating to how I acted amongst others. During my freshman year of high school, I was elected to be the Senior Patrol Leader of my Boy Scout troop, being the scout that runs and leads the entire program. While I had intentions of doing what was best for the group with a personality that would best fit the position, I had grown to be stricter than intended. This included not making or reacting to humor, being on task too often, and typically being stricter on the behavior and requirements of other scouts. I had entered the mindset where the only way to get a task completed was to solely focus on the task and nothing else. I had become strict due to my fear of failure, worried that I would see the troop fall if I did not do everything perfectly. It took some time for me to realize how much this mindset was affecting my mentality, along with my relationships among friends. Knowing that how I was behaving was wrong for my mental health, being strict about different activities, and worrying over the smallest of issues, I changed the way that I started changing the way that I approach situations. I learned how to better perceive information around me, allowing my mind to stay healthy, taking in key pieces of information, while learning to lighten up on some restrictions that I placed. While the troop may had known me for being strict all the time, it came to a better balance as time progressed.
My personal inspiration comes from the various people that I have interacted with throughout my life. From the various adult leaders in my scout troop, to my family, to the teachers that I’ve known for years, each person has influenced my life in one way or another. The various scout leaders have allowed me to rise to various challenges and make new connections while improving my own skills, my teachers have provided me with various opportunities throughout high school, allowing me to even choose the major that I am in today, with my parents being there to support me along the way. While I may not have one individual person that has inspired me to become who I am today, the sum of these components has inspired me to be a person who can always give back, learn, and grow to improve the lives of others.
My past and current experiences only drive me to continue. While I will always have a love for serving my community, playing games, and creating something new, I hope to only extend these to allow me to pursue my degree to the fullest extents, push past the boundaries of potential failure, and attempt to make technology to better the lives of others, all while having the best time that I can. What are my weaknesses will be improved upon even more, with my strengths guiding the way to a happy, healthy, and fulfilling lifestyle.