Regarding my experience with the CliftonStrengths Assessment, I found the overall questioning and process of finding out my results to be beneficial regarding the trust one needs to have on their initial intuition. The overall process allowed us to find out what our actual perspective on situations was in comparison to what we want to have ourselves viewed as. I believe that my top five strengths of Learner, Achiever, Analytical, Deliberative, and Relator align with my own perception, with all strengths focusing on one’s own academic achievement in combination with focusing on a combination of looking for the facts and emphasizing on the well-being of others. It closely aligns with my desire to continue learning, which would be beneficial in my attempts to work in programming. The top five strengths departed from my expectations specifically regarding some of the details with the descriptions, mainly focusing on minor details. This elaborates from details such as views on relationships, along with how I want to put others down in favor of getting the straight data, both of which go against what I am for. Overall, I found the program to be quite accurate in showing who I am as a person with my strengths.
Self-awareness itself can be extremely valuable regarding its impact on one’s professional life. When someone knows what they’re strengths are, they are able to maximize said traits to help the workplace to better their own and other’s work, rather than trying to focus on what one thinks to be strengths or weaknesses and trying to improve them. Even if it works out for a short period of time, focusing on what one think’s to be their strengths when there is a weakness present will eventually decrease both overall mood and performance throughout the workplace. I see myself applying my strengths to better learn how to utilize and code in various programming languages, requiring my Learner strength to learn in an efficient pace, while using my Achiever strength to put out my best work. Even with this in mind, I want to continue using my Analytical strength to use data correctly to both use software correctly and to draw the right conclusions, while connecting both my Deliberative and Relator strengths to help the other people in the workplace.
With the actual experience working with the Strength Coaches, I found their approach to the situation to be very positive and beneficial, allowing all people involved to not only get to know each other better, but to also get to know their own individual strengths better, rather than looking at specific strengths. They tailored the course to be specific to the students involved, commenting on what our discussions brought into light. I can incorporate their feedback into my professional life and leadership methods by encouraging others around me to put their best work forward using my strengths as encouragement, while also using my strengths to help others around me find their own strengths to use in one’s professional life.