My core values include determination, curiosity, and trustworthiness, with my ethical beliefs extending toward privacy, beneficence, and non-maleficence. With my intended profession of becoming a software engineer, there are always going to be advances in technology, the way we interact with the world, and challenges to overcome during development. This is where determination and curiosity are heavily emphasized, expanding on the different possibilities of what can be done, while knowing to not give up and find new ways to solve problems or errors that may arise. This only expands on what others have done throughout education. The value of trustworthiness expands on the need for collaboration, with all of engineering being a group effort to complete a specific task, but also with the consumer. This involves the need to be open when something does not function as intended.
While these values are essential to my role in both the industry and in everyday life, my beliefs emphasizing privacy, beneficence, and non-maleficence are what will ensure that I am helping others whenever possible. With security being a major issue with technological innovations, the need to keep data secure and safe is essential to not only protect the privacy of others, but to also ensure that nothing can be used against people. Harm towards others expands upon the initial thought of physical damage done to another person, with various organizations such as the National Society of Professional Engineers emphasizing the need for engineers to “hold paramount the safety, health, and welfare of the public.” While this makes the ethical belief of non-maleficence to be essential when it comes to any form of engineering, it also connects to the belief of beneficence, where one does what they can to benefit the lives of others. In the example of the software engineering industry, if one were to build a program that does not benefit the public, there are limited options on what the program can do to not cause harm, which decreases the trustworthiness of the developer. My belief in ensuring a project is built to help others directly ties in with the idea of beneficence along with my various values.
Core values can be built based on the ethical beliefs that one has promised to uphold. However, ethical beliefs can only be promised if one understands the need for them to exist. In cases where my beliefs can conflict, one cannot simply assign the case to follow one specific belief in certain criteria is met. Not only must all perspectives be considered, but so must the result for both the best and worst possible outcomes. For example, in a case of lobbying for a change in laws restricting opioids so a doctor can better serve their patients, there are perspectives that can be built for both sides of the argument that are supported through ethical beliefs that form a contradiction, mainly between the perspectives of beneficence and non-maleficence. Much like how engineers of various professions must consider all ways that a tool can be used to potentially help or harm a person, healthcare workers must investigate the best way to help their patients from the perspective of both ideal and the worst of cases. With this, there is the main concern over the well-being of the patient if opioids were allowed to be utilized for a longer period without proper care, leading to potential overdoses, versus the need for some patients to have access to opioids when they are in dire need but are able to self-regulate. The lack of an exact answer must allow for all professions to see the various perspectives, which can then allow ethical beliefs to start forming. While in this case I would choose the option that focuses on less harm being done to patients, thus not lobbying for a change in prescription durations, this wouldn’t necessarily be the answer for every case between non-maleficence and beneficence.
Overall, I will always utilize my ethical beliefs of privacy, beneficence, and non-maleficence to drive by values of determination, curiosity, and trustworthiness to help out others whenever possible. If engineering, software or any other variant, did not uphold itself or utilize personal values or beliefs, little to no advances would ever be made towards the general public.