From this course regarding understanding perspectives in terms of global events, it became evident that to better understand where we are headed as a society regarding global crises, such as climate change, proper communication is essential to preventing conflict and for working towards potential solutions in every field. This relates to both communicating the issue in an understandable and accurate manner, and properly communicating the benefits and risks associated with implementing potential solutions. Proper risk communication regarding potential solutions relating to climate change and technology is essential to make sure the evidential data is presented accurately, a skill that is necessary in any line of work.
For risk communication to be effective, the message has to be delivered in a way that allows others to understand the information, while having the necessary data to back up the claim. Failing to do so can lead to differing perspectives based on either data or terminology inaccuracies, leading to various levels of skepticism. In terms of climate change, while there is data that suggests how climate change will impact the future, improper communication has led to conflict regarding either the presence or solutions towards climate change, based on the individual representations that have been heard.
The idea of communicating the risks of the future also involves getting the positive and negative impacts of any solution, as evident in the pursuit to utilize new technologies to help combat issues such as climate change. In terms of utilizing artificial intelligence and machine learning to better complete tasks, there are various perspectives on how effective these solutions can be, without accounting for the potential privacy breach. As this technology is new, a combination of adaptations to these changes and addressing the issues that arise is needed to protect others from negative effects, regardless of how unintended they are.
From this information, it has only emphasized my stance on gathering as much information as possible from various sources to get both perspectives on an issue, looking towards the data to base my conclusion on. This will lead to looking into the various solutions possible, comparing the benefits and drawbacks in terms of effectiveness, privacy, net monetary cost, and net environmental cost. Some changes will make it necessary to adapt, but adaptations do not correlate only listening to one perspective of an issue, making it essential to hear all sides to a story.